Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to show you an action, adventure,
sci-fi film called “Armageddon.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
On a routine mission repairing a satellite,
a team of astronauts suddenly get bombarded
by high-speed projectiles, damaging their
shuttle and killing them instantly.
NASA is caught in complete surprise by the
sudden tragedy, but they immediately start
an investigation.
They spot a large number of incoming bogeys
headed for the eastern United States.
In New York, people are going about their
daily business when huge balls of fire rain
upon the city.
The streets are filled with panic, people
are running for their lives, and buildings
are destroyed.
Within a matter of seconds, the city is reduced
to a fiery mess of rubble and debris.
At NASA, missions director Bob Thurman addresses
the U.S. president on the situation.
They’ve found that the meteor shower that
hit the astronauts and the eastern United
States was the front end of a massive asteroid.
The incoming asteroid, according to their
estimates, is about the size of the state
of Texas.
Bob warns the president that the meteor has
the potential to end all life on the planet,
calling it a global killer.
They have just 18 days to figure out a solution
before it hits.
On an off-shore oil drilling platform in the
South China Sea, company owner Harry Stamper
plays golf.
He tries to hit a small barge of protesting
activists, laughing at them, pointing out
how their barge consumes a large amount of
diesel every hour they protest.
His crewmate, Chick, informs him that one
of the drills has malfunctioned and Harry
immediately knows it’s AJ’s fault.
Harry heads to AJ’s quarters and barges
in.
AJ springs up from bed and apologizes for
what happened.
Harry is immediately suspicious as AJ never
apologizes this quickly.
He quickly suspects something and upon inspection,
sees his daughter Grace in AJ’s bed.
Harry gets his shotgun and chases AJ through
the platform, shooting at him.
AJ dodges the shots, and tries to tell Harry
that he’s in love with Grace.
Harry doesn’t listen and keeps shooting
until a ricochet hits AJ.
Grace rushes in and tries to help.
At NASA, everyone is trying to figure out
a solution for the incoming asteroid.
They exhaust their ideas, ranging from placing
solar sails on the asteroid, to firing lasers,
but nothing seems like a viable option.
Back on the platform, Grace scolds Harry,
telling him he can’t keep controlling her
life.
As they entertain clients Grace tells Harry
that she likes AJ and her decision to be with
him stands.
She argues that she’s been around roughnecks
all her life, and it would not be so strange
for her to fall for one.
In NASA’s meeting room, heads of the military
meet with scientists, and head of research
Doctor Ronald Quincy proposes a solution.
The presidential advisers suggest firing multiple
nuclear rockets at the asteroid to change
the trajectory, but Ronald advises against
it.
At the asteroid’s current size and velocity,
the rockets would do very little.
He suggests drilling into the asteroid and
placing a nuclear warhead inside it.
Upon detonation, the asteroid would break
apart and miss the planet.
For this, they would need the help of the
best deep core drilling team on the planet.
The military then arrives at Harry’s drilling
platform and takes him and Grace to NASA.
Bob then briefs Harry and Grace on the situation
and asks them for help regarding the plan
to drill into the asteroid.
Bob shows Harry a prototype drill, and Harry
immediately recognizes it as his design.
Bob tells Harry they’re intending to send
two teams of astronauts, and Harry has to
train them to use the drill since he’s the
best at drilling.
Harry then responds saying he’s only the
best because of his team.
He offers help but would rather have him and
his team be sent out to space rather than
the astronauts.
He informs Bob that drilling is an extremely
difficult job and can only be perfected through
years of experience.
Bob agrees and Harry lists everyone he wants
on the team.
The FBI then picks up Bear, Max, Rockhound,
Oscar, Chick, and AJ. Bob gathers them and
informs them of the impending doom.
They’re all mortified to know about the
asteroid and the suicidal plan to save the
planet but realize they don’t have a choice
but to say yes.
The team is then placed through a rigorous
physical and psychological evaluation process,
and everyone fails almost every aspect of
the evaluation.
Bob, seeing the results, still says they should
move forward.
The team later meets with Colonel Willie who
will train them on the mental and physical
rigors of space flight.
The team is placed in high-speed fighter jets
and subjected to neck-breaking speeds to simulate
gravitational forces.
The team then trains underwater to simulate
weightlessness.
They also meet other various trainers, preparing
them for other aspects of the mission.
At the mission briefing, they learn that they’ll
intercept the asteroid with help from the
moon’s gravity.
The two shuttle teams would then land at different
locations and start drilling to 800 feet before
placing the nuclear bomb inside, taking off,
and detonating the bomb remotely.
They must detonate the bomb before a certain
point, after which the asteroid would still
hit Earth even after getting blown up.
The two teams will both get their own drills
outfitted to a Martian exploration rover dubbed
the Armadillo.
Later, Harry looks for Grace and he finds
her with AJ at the flight hanger.
He sees them sharing an intimate moment and
decides not to disturb them.
AJ later proposes to Grace.
The rest of the team sees Harry, and they
confront him about his treatment of Grace.
They tell Harry that he should loosen up on
Grace and allow her to grow up.
Bear argues that they feel like they all helped
raise Grace and believe they should be heard.
They perform underwater simulation, with the
team being split into two.
AJ, Oscar, and Bear would be with the shuttle
Independence.
Harry, Chick, Rockhound, and Max would be
on-board the shuttle Freedom.
After a training mishap, Harry confronts AJ
and warns him this is no time for any errors.
Harry then requests some time to let the team
spend time with their families.
The day of the launch comes and the whole
world holds its breath for the brave souls
launching into the stars to save humanity.
The president gives an address wishing luck
to the men.
The teams get into their respective shuttles
and get into position for launch.
The shuttles launch successfully and they
later dock with the Rssuan space station to
refuel.
They meet with cosmonaut Lev Andropov and
set up the fuel transfer.
Lev tasks AJ to head down to the fuel pod.
A leak occurs and the fuel pod catches fire.
Chaos erupts and everyone rushes back to their
shuttles to evacuate.
AJ and Lev get left behind as everyone makes
their way back.
The two men make their way through a small
shaft and eventually get to the shuttle in
the nick of time.
As Independence and Freedom fly off, the Russian
space station breaks apart.
The two shuttles initiate a slingshot maneuver
around the moon, enduring fatal gravity forces
and make a path for the asteroid.
They finally spot the asteroid and both teams
are in awe of what they’re seeing.
The two shuttles then try to land but run
into a large debris field.
Independence takes a hit and NASA listens
helplessly as the men call out.
Rocks bombard the shuttles and the crew on
the Independence try to make their way to
the cargo bay but the shuttle loses all control.
Independence crashes and all hands appear
to be lost.
Freedom also crashlands into the asteroid
a few minutes later.
The Freedom crew is all accounted for but
have missed their landing zone and landed
on an impenetrable portion of the asteroid.
NASA struggles to regain radio contact with
both shuttles.
Under the wreckage of the Independence shuttle,
AJ finds a dead Oscar.
Lev calls out to him and they find Bear.
The three men are all that remains of the
original shuttle crew.
The Freedom crew takes out their Armadillo
and starts drilling through the hardened surface.
They get no farther than ten feet of drilling
before the drill bit breaks.
Communication with mission control gets reestablished
but is faulty.
In the Independence, AJ, Bear, and Lev get
into their Armadillo and begin their journey
for the Freedom.
The Freedom replaces the drill and immediately
starts drilling but the transmission blows
up and they have to replace it.
Willie asks Harry about the progress and he
informs him of the setbacks.
Willie then rushes to convey the information
to mission control but Harry follows.
Harry and Willie get into an altercation and
the communication cuts off again.
After seeing the drilling has failed, the
president orders the remote detonation of
the nuclear bomb.
The military advises Bob to evacuate the men
off the asteroid as they’ll have to detonate
the bomb in five minutes.
Bob calls the president telling him detonating
the bomb would have no effect on the asteroid’s
trajectory but the order remains.
In the Freedom, the nuclear timer starts beeping
and Willie comes in telling everyone to evacuate
because the president just activated the bomb.
Willie orders Harry to have the men return
or else they’ll get left behind.
Harry tells Willie that if they don’t get
the bomb into a hole deep enough, the explosion
would have minimal effect on the asteroid.
Everybody starts shouting and Harry grabs
a wrench to break the timer but Willie draws
a gun and points it at Harry.
Back in NASA, Bob orders one of his men to
discreetly deactivate the connection between
the signal on Earth and the nuke.
They succeed and are able to buy a few minutes
of time but the military catch on and bring
the timer back online.
In Freedom, Harry tries to convince Willie
to let them do their job.
He tells him that if the nuke explodes now,
everyone on Earth would still die.
With less than a minute left, Willie decides
to help him deactivate the timer manually.
They open up the bomb and Willie sifts through
wires, trying to disconnect the proper connections.
The timer beeps faster, nearing zero, and
Willie has to decide which wires to cut.
With seconds on the timer, Willie cuts the
wire and the timer stops.
Freedom reestablishes connection and Harry
tells NASA they’re going to continue with
the mission.
The Independence survivors are stranded in
a ravine but AJ gets an idea to float over
it, using the asteroid’s reduced gravity.
They throttle up their Armadillo and jump
the ravine, soaring above it.
They soon realize they have no control and
the thrusters start malfunctioning.
Lev heads out to manually override them and
they eventually land safely.
The Freedom crew repairs the drill transmission
but Rockhound starts screwing around with
the equipment.
He finds a remote controlled machine gun and
starts firing blindly at the asteroid.
Rockhound is clearly experiencing some sort
of mental breakdown and believes they’ll
all die on the asteroid.
Harry manages to disable him but the asteroid
starts cracking.
This causes the Armadillo to explode, launching
it into space with Max still inside.
They’re now left with no drill, and Harry
sends word to NASA that they’ve failed.
On Earth, the public is informed and everyone
tries to prepare.
A huge chunk of the asteroid hits Paris, destroying
the city.
As Harry and his team prepare to leave, they
spot the Freedom’s Armadillo arriving, and
they start cheering.
They inform NASA and immediately start drilling
again.
With their final chance, the team works together
to get the hole to 800 feet.
The team succeeds and now sends the bomb down
the hole.
The asteroid starts breaking apart and the
men get thrown around and some of the men
die.
Willie sees that the remote detonation for
the bomb has been damaged and means that someone
would have to remain to detonate the bomb
manually.
In the shuttle, the men decide to draw straws
to see who will do it.
AJ draws the short straw.
Harry takes AJ down to the asteroid but as
they get down, Harry pulls AJ’s oxygen supply
and gets forced to return to the shuttle.
Harry takes the detonator and tells AJ to
take care of Grace.
Harry steps out and heads to the bomb.
The shuttle prepares to leave and Harry calls
Grace.
He tells her that he won’t be able to return
and Grace tells him she loves him.
Harry says his final goodbyes and ends the
communication.
The shuttle engine goes online and the flight
begins.
They ascend, getting out of the blast range
and heading for Earth.
On the asteroid, Harry sees the Earth one
last time before pressing the button to detonate.
The asteroid blows up, breaking apart and
passing by the planet, missing the Earth by
400 miles.
The Freedom announces they’ll be heading
home.
People on Earth witness the spectacular explosion
and cheer.
The folks at NASA are ecstatic, shouting and
cheering, congratulating each other.
The shuttle lands successfully and the team
is greeted on the runway.
AJ and Grace run to each other’s arms as
the crowd watches meteors fly across
the sky.